# Part-of-Speech Tagging
Part-of-Speech Tagging using HMM and Viterbi algorithm

## Train HMM Tagger
This script takes two arguments. First of them is the path of the training file. Second argument is the selected tagset for training.
    
To run the program for the postag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:   
    
    `python3 trainHmmTagger.py /path/to/trainingFile --postag`    
     
To run the program for the cpostag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:   
    
    `python3 trainHmmTagger.py /path/to/trainingFile --cpostag`    
    
## HMM Tagger
This scripts takes four arguments. First of them is the path of training file. Second argument is the selected tagset for training. Third is the path of test file. Fourth one is the path of the output file. In this file, in each line has the following "token|tag". There is a empty line between sentences. This script uses the trainHmmTagger.py script to train the model. 
      
To run the program for the postag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:       
       
     `python3 hmmTagger.py /path/to/trainingFile --postag /path/to/testFile /path/to/outputFile`     
   
To run the program for the cpostag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:       
       
     `python3 hmmTagger.py /path/to/trainingFile --cpostag /path/to/testFile /path/to/outputFile`     
   
## Evaluation of the HMM Tagger
This script takes three arguments. First of them is the path of the output file which is generated by the tagger. Second is the path of the gold file. Third argument is the selected tagset for training.

To run the program for the postag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:       
       
     `python3 evaluateHmmTagger.py /path/to/outputFile /path/to/goldFile --postag`     
   
To run the program for the cpostag set, write the following command from the same folder with the script:       
       
     `python3 evaluateHmmTagger.py /path/to/outputFile /path/to/goldFile --cpostag`     
   

### Important Notes
* Run the program with python 3.5 or later versions.
